Ios/live data (#129)
MapsIndoors/mapsindoors.github.io: collections/_ios/v3/live-data/live-data-tutorial.md

---
layout: tutorial
title: Working with Live Updates / Real Time Data in MapsIndoors for iOS
parent: live-data
nav_weight: 330
published: true
date: 2020-08-07
permalink: /ios/v3/live-data/live-data-tutorial
---

> In this tutorial you will learn to work with Live Updates / Real Time Data in MapsIndoors. It is recommended that you read the [Live Data Introduction](/ios/v3/live-data) before continueing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you will learn to work with Live Updates / real-time data in MapsIndoors. It is recommended that you read the [Live Data Introduction](/ios/v3/live-data) before continuing.
```

> We will create a view controller displaying a map that shows the some dynamic changes that are initiated from Live Data sources known by MapsIndoors. The test data coming as Live Updates contains data for the Occupancy Domain Type and the Position Domain Type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create a view controller displaying a map that shows some dynamic changes that are initiated from Live Data sources known by MapsIndoors. The test data are of the Occupancy Domain Type and the Position Domain Type.
```

```swift
let positionButton = UIButton.init()
let occupancyButton = UIButton.init()
```

Add a `GMSMapView` and a `MPMapControl` to the class

```swift
var map: GMSMapView? = nil
var mapControl: MPMapControl? = nil
```

Add a `MPLiveDataManager` to the class, being the shared instance. The property is declared `lazy` in order to only instantiate the shared instance once it is needed.

```swift
lazy var liveManager = MPLiveDataManager.sharedInstance()
```

Add a method `setupSubscriptionButtons()` setting up buttons that enables/disables the subscriptions.

```swift
fileprivate func setupSubscriptionButtons() {
    positionButton.setTitle("See Live Positions", for: .normal)
    positionButton.setTitle("Tracking Live Positions", for: .selected)
    positionButton.addTarget(self, action: #selector(togglePosition), for: .touchUpInside)
    positionButton.backgroundColor = UIColor.blue

    occupancyButton.setTitle("See Live Occupancy", for: .normal)
    occupancyButton.setTitle("Showing Live Occupancy", for: .selected)
    occupancyButton.addTarget(self, action: #selector(toggleOccupancy), for: .touchUpInside)
    occupancyButton.backgroundColor = UIColor.red

> }
> 
> ```swift
> Add a method `toggleSubscription()` that does the actual toggling of a subscription for a button based on the buttons `isSelected` flag. Swap current selected state for button. If the flag is true and the button is selected, call the Live Data Manager's `subscribe()` method with the given Topic Criteria. We will also call a `startFlash()`method that should make the button flash. More on this later. If the flag is false and the button is not selected, call the Live Data Manager's `unsubscribe()` method with the given Topic Criteria. Similarly we will call a `stopFlash()`method that should stop the button flash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

Add a method `toggleSubscription()` that does the actual toggling of a subscription for a button based on the button's `isSelected` flag. Swap current selected state for button. If the flag is `true` and the button is selected, call the Live Data Manager's `subscribe()` method with the given Topic Criteria. We will also call a `startFlash()`method that should make the button flash. More on this later. If the flag is `false` and the button is not selected, call the Live Data Manager's `unsubscribe()` method with the given Topic Criteria. Similarly we will call a `stopFlash()`method that should stop the button flash.
```

```swift
@objc func togglePosition(button:UIButton) {
    let topic = MPLiveTopicCriteria.domainType(MPLiveDomainType.position)
    toggleSubscription(button, topic)
}
```

Define an objective-c method `toggleOccupancy()` that will receive events from your `occupancyButton`. In this method create a `occupancy` Topic Criteria and call `togglePosition` with the button and the Topic Criteria.

```swift
@objc func toggleOccupancy(button:UIButton) {
    let topic = MPLiveTopicCriteria.domainType(MPLiveDomainType.occupancy)
    toggleSubscription(button, topic)
}

override func viewDidLoad() {

    super.viewDidLoad()

    MapsIndoors.provideAPIKey("e4e4dcc9b98a4730b426c269", googleAPIKey: nil)
```

Inside `viewDidLoad()`, initialise your instance of `GMSMapView` and `MPMapControl`. Set the delegate to be able to get notified about Live Updates for the map.

```swift
self.map = GMSMapView.init(frame: CGRect.zero)
self.mapControl = MPMapControl.init(map: self.map!)
self.mapControl?.delegate = self as MPMapControlDelegate
```

> Inside `viewDidLoad()`, also request a building and go to this building on the map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside `viewDidLoad()`, also request a Building and go to this Building on the map.
```
